The specific person you're referring to at the American association for
the advancement of science debate, which I just went to make the comment.
I went into that thinking that was going to be a debate. I came out of it,
realizing that they were just trying to set me up to put me down and shut me up
forever, which they were not successful in doing.
That.
They're so reluctant to just listen to the evidence and look at the information
and, and,
and consider the possibility that maybe there had been an ancient civilization.
Set up, sets the standard timeline, the standard standard story.
And it also upsets a lot of people's concept of progression. And, uh,
this is something John Anthony West, like to talk about the whole,
he called it the church of progress that we've gotten better and better and
better.
And I talked to so many people that think that we are the end all and be
all we're the best that there ever has been. Well,
maybe we are in terms of certain types of technology and I'm not
making any claim that people in the past could ever do what we're doing now,
doing a podcast with all the electronics.
But as I pointed out that also makes us really vulnerable to things,
but I would argue that there is a not so
remote possibility that they knew things that we don't know that they may have
understood things that we don't understand.
They may have had a worldview that would benefit us to at least have a
feel for it. Um, I mean, I don't want to go find spiritual tangents.
I could if I want to our philosophical tangent,
but I also have a training as an anthropologist anthropologists.
I have an under undergraduate degree in anthropology on top of everything else.
And I'm fascinated by human approaches to life and the
environment and their situation.
And I'm convinced that we do have things to learn
from the ancients,
whether it's the really remote ancients or the more recent ancients from
only 5,000 years ago, even dynastic Egypt. Um,
and that it's not all simply a one-way progress that there are fits and
starts that there have been high points and low points and high points again.
And I'm not frankly convinced that we're at the highest point when it comes to
certain aspects, we might be a high point with certain types of technology,
but I'm not convinced that we're at a high point when it comes to, um,
I don't know.
Construction.
Certainly not with stone construction. So there are types of technology.
We are not a high point with much less getting to this philosophical or
spiritual or whatever you want.
Call it.
And we don't think of it as technology because we think of technology as being
something that's electronic.
That's right. That's right. And there are other technologies.
And if you asked me, how did they build the pyramids? I will tell you,
I don't know if you ask me how they constructed the Sphinx temple,
they carved out those huge blocks of stone that can waive 50 or more tons
and move them in such tight spaces with such tight tolerances.
I don't know. I, I'm not going to, no one really knows. No one really knows.
And sometimes people say, you know, you bring in thousands of slaves or whatnot.
Well, there's no evidence for that.
And where would you have them stand when you're building the Sphinx temple right
now, there's not enough. Room to.
Stones are so big. Even thousands of slaves struggled to move them.
It's not like something like that. Just get a couple of buddies.
We're going to move this couch. Yeah. Yeah. We're not talking about that. No.
No, no. And yeah, you can try to hypothesize levers and that type of thing,
but it's, this has been said before, and I've seen, um,
I wasn't there in person, but I've seen off the record document, you know,
footage of it when they've tried to just construct a little pyramid with very
small blocks and then they, um,
end up using modern machines and they still weren't very successful. I mean.
So they knew a lot.
Now they knew a lot. So there's a real resistance.
I find among a lot of my academic colleagues to want to even suggest
that people could have known things in the past that we don't know now,
or if they knew something in the past that we don't know now,
it was so trivial that it was worth, forgetting, worth, not worrying about.
Uh, so there's this, that concept I find amazing.
And I hate to be stereotypic, some broad brushing,
but many Egyptologists when I read their works or I
listened to them at conferences, et cetera.
And I get the impression that they might love Egyptology and
studying the ancient Egyptians, but they also have this view that, oh,
these guys made wonderful temples and had some fantastic art, but really,
you know, they're sort of primitive in Hahahaha, isn't that silly. And you see,
I mean, it's like this very thing vacation, the very thing they study,
they put down in a sense to build themselves up and to.
Build up this idea of ultimate progress that we can.
Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Then you also have in Egypt,
tall G and I won't give you another example of this,
not just me bringing in scientific evidence and data and the Egyptologists
rejecting it, but just recently in the last couple of years,
have you heard about the project on the great pyramid,
the big void they've been using mammography, um,
which is a highly sophisticated technique using muon that come from outer space
or come from the atmosphere, they go through the pyramid,
you can set up detectors long-term and pick these up.
They're sort of like ex think of x-rays technology, but using muons,
uh,
which are sort of exotic particle that most people are not aware of because they
just pass right through us without interacting.
But when you've got massive stone, massive stone will block some of them.
So you can pick up essentially image over a long period of time.
So this is really high tech physics, very expensive.
A consortium of physicists did work on the great pyramid.
I think it's still ongoing, but they put up, you know, tens of millions,
if not more worth of a high, you know,
sophisticated physical physics equipment gathered all this data.
I've seen the raw data. I have a degree in geophysics,
geology and geophysics. I have some ability to evaluate this type of data.
Whereas I hate to say a lot that Egyptologists don't.
And I found that with my own data when I shared my own data that not to be
nasty, but they didn't know what they were looking at,
which is somewhat understandable since it's not their training. Right?
So you have with the great pyramid just recently in last couple of years,
published in nature, a very prestigious journal.
They found what they believe is evidence for a huge void
above the grand gallery that has never been known before.
Um, and yeah, there, we have a picture of it.
The Egyptologists have been so resistant to this saying,
this is nonsense. There can't be, we don't basically, we,
there can't be anything new that we don't know about our, if it is,
it's just trivial, it's just some, um,
space between the rocks is nothing important.
But what I wanted to say what's is really important.
Some Egyptologists actually called for the whole project to be closed
down because they don't like the results and they called it propaganda.
Closed down, but you.
Cut that close down the whole scientific project.
Not only do they not want to look at the data,
they'll want more data collected that might contradict their standard.
That's fascinating that someone would actually call for that because this isn't
even their study of their field of study. Right?
So you're dealing with physical evidence that they're saying is nonsense,
but this is not something they studied in the first place, right?
So there's this void that we're looking at here in these images.
Can you explain to people that are just listening? What we're seeing?
Oh, what you're seeing is they call it a hidden chamber there,
but you can see how it's parallel to the grand gallery.
The grand gallery is this huge gallery that goes up to the King's chamber in
the great pyramid.
It's deep in the pyramid. The pyramid hidden chambers above this above.
Parallel said is maybe close to the same size of it. It's hard to tell with,
until it gets probe, you know,
you'd have to drill into it and maybe put a camera in,
but I've seen the raw data. My point is I've seen the raw data.
I certainly think it's important. They're interpreting it correctly.
Now the proof will be in the pudding as they say,
if they ever entered or at least put a probe into it.
But my point right now is to just dismiss the data is nonsense to
call for the whole project to be shut down is nonsense. In my opinion,
some of the Egypt, Egypt, Egypt, tologist, um, close, close to the ministry.
And my point is, they've done the same thing to me. So for instance,
when we did seismic work and we found the chamber under the left pod,
the Sphinx, that's never been explored since at least not to my knowledge.
And they just dismiss it and say, we know there's nothing there. Um,
and that was despite the fact that we also found a chamber at the rump of the
Sphinx, which I didn't know about the time, but they already knew about,
so it confirmed that our data was good because we were finding something they
knew about.
But when we find something they don't know about and they don't want to be
there, they dismiss it and don't want to pursue it further.
They have explored one of those chambers, correct?
Is that they explore the one that's in the room.
The one in the rump. Yes. The one in the rump,
but it turns out they already knew about it.
It's probably not super significant.
It probably is just maybe a correct code Roman or late period, you know,
burial or some kind of excavation.
The one that I believe is important is under the left Palm of the Sphinx,
which I believe is a archive actually may go back to this very
early period because we now have hieroglyphic evidence indicating that.
W what is the evidence indicates? It's an archive. Okay.
So recently, and this gets back to, um, the Sphinx. Yes.
Okay.
So we started this portion of the discussion with the Sphinx and my initial
observations of the Spanx.
And one of my observations was that there's something going on with the
weathering and erosion on the Sphinx. The second observation,
this is within the first two minutes at most was that the head is too small for
the body. The head is not a road at the way.
The core body is it's not a rote. The way the walls of the Sphinx enclosure are.
It's not the original head.
I hate to say it this way by knew immediately,
that was not the original head, you know, just from a geological point of view.
And I believe that's now since been fully confirmed that this is not the
original head. It was a re carved head. So for a long time,
the question has been in my mind,
and we talk about this on mystery of the Sphinx.
What was the original head of the Sphinx? What was this thing?
So originally we've speculated and other people's speculate.
Might've been a lion for instance, Leo,
because it faces on the Equinox,
the constellation Leo in the sky,
not today, but 10,000 BC or so,
more or less at the very end of the last ice age.
Now I've had a lot of colleagues of mine.
Academic colleagues say that's nonsense. You know,
it doesn't mean anything because they weren't even recognizing the
constellations back then. Um, we now have plenty of evidence,
at least some of the constellations that we recognize today, uh, Leo,
I would put in that category, uh, a tourist is in that,
or Ryan is in that core category. Some of them we don't have evidence for,
but the ones I just mentioned, the, the, um, they,
these are constellations that go back well into the end of the last ice age.
We have documents of that. We have, um,
mammoth bones where you have a Ryan carved on it.
We have tourists shown in cave walls. We have Leo shown. So it's, to me,
it's fascinating that some of these constellations that we recognize today were
recognized tenths of thousands of years ago. So to me,
it's not nonsense that they carved a structure
10,000 BC, approximately that was facing its own image in the sky.
So one suggestion was that maybe it's Lele, but recently, um,
Manu safes today, Dr. Manu saves a dead. Another colleague of mine.
He recognized initially that there is a title what's known as a
dual title in dynastic Egypt that goes
back to the fourth dynasty.
And even back to the first dynasty with the earliest writing. And it,
when properly translated,
basically refers to the Sphinx as the guardian up an archive
and not the Sphinx as we think of it as a lion with a human head,
but as a lion ness. And there was a name for this line, this head,
she was the goddess met Hitt who guarded archive. Um,
and we wrote a paper on that. When I say we Manu safes a day,
myself and Robert [inaudible] who you may know up from, uh, Ryan correlation,
some of his, his work ties in with this, the Archeo astronomy,
but we've now found that there is this sign,
which we named the J w sign in honor of in honor of
John Anthony West. Uh, there it is. There's the JW sign.
And what you see here is a lioness met hit,
which was the Sphinx originally based on our reconstruction and
interpretation. Um, can't go into all the details. Now you can actually,
people can read the paper if I could put a plug in. If people go to my website,
www dot Robert shock.
And that's R O B E R T R O B E R T S C H O
C H. The main thing is my name is spelled S C H O C H.
So www Robert schoch.com. They can go,
I did a popular summary of the paper and they can also go and download the
original paper in the peer reviewed journal, archeological discovery.